# Chess-Project
My chess game project.


Technologies used:
In this project I used a combination of html, css, javascript and jQuery.

Approach taken: 
The first step in creating this project was to create the board. The way I created the board was by first setting up my html correctly. The next step was that I created a lot of divs, one div to contain all the other divs called "board", and then I made divs that represented rows. The board contains those divs that were styled in css to look like boxes. Each div had an id which corresponds to a real chessboard's coordinates(e.g. a1,e8,h3). But in my case, I id'd it like "sqr-1-a". After making the board all the heavy lifting was in javascript. The first step was to make an array that represented the chessboard. So I made a variable called "chessboard" and made an array of arrays that was 8x8 or 64 arrays. After that, the first step was to make a constructor function that created chess pieces. The properties contained in this constructor function are: type, image, startingPosition, color, and living. Then, there is a function that places the pieces in the correct squares called "placePiece". It states the origin of the pieces and places the pieces according to where each object says their startingPosition should be. There's a function to getBoardCoordinates, and what that function does is that it converts the coordinates from html and converts it to a different setting of coordinates so that the piece objects can interact with the array "chessboard". Then I made functions like: validCells, checkBounds and checkRange. And what these functions do is: check the possible moves of the pieces, checks to see if those moves go out of bounds of the board and checks to see if the moves go out of the coordinates given, respectively. Then the next step was to create the move logic for each type of piece. I started with the knight because it, to me, was the simplest one to code. In the knightMove function I just made an array of all possible moves in [row, column] fashion. For other pieces that have similar move structures I made functions like: straightMoves and diagonalMoves. "straightMoves" was used by the rook and queen. And "diagonalMoves" was used by the queen and bishop. With the king, I took the same approach as the knight, I just made an array of all possible moves because the king can move in any direction but only one square at a time. The pawn, I made if else statements and in those conditionals I gave the pawn the option to move one or two squares on the first move for each pawn. I created a new css class called option, and what that does is highlight the possible moves by giving the css class a property of background-color: yellow. And then finally to have my pieces move, I created a click function within my pieceImage click function and what I did to make the pieces move was that I had to use jQuery to use target.empty() to delete the image from where the piece was starting at and use another jQuery function to append the pieceImage to the newly clicked possible move.
